
The Department of Mechanical Engineering came into its existence right from the inception of the then Regional Engineering College Hamirpur (now National Institute of Technology Hamirpur) in the year 1986 and served as catering department to other disciplines. The discipline of Mechanical Engineering started offering undergraduate programme leading to four year Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech) degree in Mechanical Engineering in the year 1994. The first batch was started with an intake of 30 students which has now been enhanced to 60 students by the Ministry of HRD, Government of India from the session 2006-2007 which has further been enhanced to 90 students. Since its existence, 21 Batches of Undergraduate students with B.Tech Degree in Mechanical Engineering, 14 batches of Postgraduate programme i.e. M.Tech. (Thermal Engineering) and 7 batches of M.Tech. (CAD CAM Engineering) have passed. Apart from this about 20 students have got their PhD in various areas of specialisation i.e. Thermal, Production, Materials and Design. The department has a separate building housing the various laboratories viz : Strength of Materials, Theory of Machines, Dynamics of Machinery, Mechanical Measurements and Control, Heat Transfer, Refrigeration & Air Conditioning, Turbo Machines, Production, CAD/CAM, Metrology & Heat Engines, lecture rooms, seminar room, faculty chambers and office. The major advanced equipments available in these labs are: Computerized two stroke petrol engine test rig, Gas analyzer, Vibration exciter, Dynamometer, Four ball tester (computerized), Sound level meter, Hardness tester (Rockwell & Brinell), Impact tester, Sophisticated metrology equipment, FFT analyzer machine condition monitoring equipment, Journal bearing test rig, Refrigeration tutor, Air conditioning tutor, Ice plant tutor, Various hydraulic turbines (Kaplan, Francis, Pelton wheel) and pumps, Centrifugal blower & Heat transfer equipments, Universal Testing Machine (Computerized), Plasma cutting machine, Pollution checking equipments, Projection manometer, Flaw detector, Computerized vertical machining centre, Robot etc.


The computer lab of the department is well equipped having PCs of P III and P IV configuration, Printers, scanner facilities and engineering software's like - NISA FINITE ELEMENT, FLUENT, FLOW LAB and ANSYS ADVANCED MULTIPHYSICS for the use of students and the faculty as well for academic and research purposes. More software's for CAD/CAM are being procured. The department has started a Postgraduate programme leading to M. Tech. Degree with specialization in Computational Methods and Experimental Techniques in Fluid Flow & Heat transfer, admitting students from the session 2005-2006 and offering a Ph.D programme in the areas of Design, Thermal, Production/Industrial. Research scholars have registered and are pursuing their Ph.D work. The department has also submitted proposals to start new PG programmes on CAD/CAM and MBA (Industrial Management). The department has seventeen faculty members fourteen of which hold Ph.D degrees. Rest of our faculty members possess M. Tech. Degrees and are pursuing their Ph.D. degrees. The faculty members are experienced having expertise in Design/Thermal/Industrial/Production and are engaged in research work in the areas of Solar Energy, Heat Transfer, Material Science, Quality and Reliability, Air pollution control, Tribology and Mechanism Design etc apart from teaching. The faculty members have got projects on MODROBS, TAT and R&D from various funding agencies like MHRD, DST, AICTE and TEQIP. A few more projects proposals have recently been submitted for consideration to these agencies. Our graduates are well placed through on-campus and off-campus placement and are holding responsible positions in different organizations viz. ITC, Godrej Consumers, Hero Motocorp., Maruti, Saint Gobain, Future First, Infosys, Wipro, DRDO, ISRO to name a few. Department of Mechanical Engineering is alive to the needs of coming times. Accordingly more facilities and expertise are being developed in the areas of Energy, Materials, Reliability, Robotics, CFD, CAD/CAM etc.

© 2020 All 